Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Synced and corrected by deglinglau
www.addic7ed.com
“There is not a righteous man on earth
who does what is right and never sins.”
Ecclesiastes 7:20.
Hey.
Oye.
I should call my mom.
You need...
Your mommy?
You're gonna need a lot
more than that, vato.
You're American?
Where's your identification?
I don't know.
Your papers? Passport?
Something's wrong. I can't...
I can't remember anything.
What's your name?
What happened to your hand?
I don't know.
It seems like the kind of
thing a person would remember.
It could get infected.
Sí.
Thank you.
I should call someone.
You don't get a phone call.
That surprises Americans
when they get in trouble here.
But maybe if you help me figure out
why you had narcotics
in your possession,
I can help you notify someone.
You forgot that, too?
In the trunk of your car?
What were you doing way out there?
I, uh...
was meeting someone.
I was meeting a woman.
I'm not usually like this.
Heroin will do that.
I don't use drugs.
You just run them.
You're not high right now?
Why are you in Mexico?
Because I'm trying to...
help my mom.
Your mother is with you in Mexico?
Mm-mmm. She's not, but...
Rosa.
I'm meeting Rosa, who's a doctor,
so I should find her.
Rosa who?
Where does she live?
I'm sorry, I don't know.
Jefe.
Deme.
Yeah.
You're not just American.
You're Dr. Spencer Reid with the FBI?
Thanks, Cruz. This is bad.
I know. It doesn't make sense.
What's wrong?
Reid is in jail.
Jail?
In Mexico.
What the hell is he doing down there?
I don't know. I didn't talk to him.
The call came in to Cruz
from their lead investigator.
What's he being held for?
Drug possession,
with intent to distribute.
What type of drugs?
Cocaine and heroin.
Oh, my God.
This can't be happening.
We need Lewis and Walker here asap.
Yeah. I can call them. I can do that.
I'm gonna run some tests
to figure out what you're on right now.
Thank you. Helpful.
We're having a hard time
finding this Dr. Rosa.
You still don't remember her last name
or where you met her?
I'm trying.
When my officers chased you,
you were racing toward the border.
My guess is you planned on crossing it.
Is that true?
No, I, uh...
Think I was chasing someone.
Who?
They were in front of me.
Maybe your officers saw them.
They did.
No one got the tags.
This has to be a mistake.
I think I'm being framed.
You have enemies who would do this?
This has got to be Scratch.
He was laying low. Now we know why.
Crossing the border as a
fugitive is a huge risk.
The reward is greater.
He's been punishing the team.
Now his target is Reid.
Peter Lewis dropped off the map
after attacking Tara's family.
Maybe he's been hiding
in Mexico this whole time.
We also have to consider
this isn't related to him.
Who else would it be?
Drug cartels.
Could have threatened Reid
and used him as a mule.
Agreed. This could simply
be a case of bad luck.
Reid was in the wrong
place at the wrong time.
Spence's mom is ok.
The home nurse he hired
said all is stable.
Oh, thank the stars.
How long did he
tell the nurse he'd be gone?
Uh, 3 days.
That sounds reasonable.
After the Palm Springs case,
Reid said he had to get back to Houston
to talk to his mom's doctor.
Well, Houston is only a
5-hour drive from the border.
Usually I can read him.
I can't believe I didn't
pick up on any of this.
He didn't want you
to, and there's no way
you would have guessed
he'd end up in Mexico.
The question is, why
did he go down there?
And why does he have narcotics?
Yeah, exactly. That... that...
He wouldn't... he wouldn't do that.
I'm not gonna share any
secrets I'm not supposed to,
but those drugs were planted on him.
Absolutely. But there's
something bigger in play.
That's why he crossed the
border and kept it a secret.
There's something he didn't
want to share with any of you.
Ok, so what would make
him risk everything?
His mom.
Yeah, but she's here and she's safe.
Oh, wait.
Cruz just sent me the arresting report.
Hold, please. Translating now.
O... k.
It says here that Reid was involved
in a high-speed chase.
What? He hardly ever drives.
None of this sounds like him.
It says he was wearing jeans,
he was really confused. And...
According to the arresting officer,
he was really high on something.
No, no, he wouldn't do that.
Not after what happened
with Tobias Hankel.
Who's that?
An offender with D.I.D.
who kidnapped and drugged Reid.
When was this?
10 years ago.
What does the report say
about the intent to distribute.
Uh, it says he was charged
with constructive possession,
and in the duffel bag
there was cocaine, cash,
and 3 bricks of heroin.
Ok, we'll be there in less than an hour.
Dave, were you able
to reach Jack Garrett?
He's deep in a case, but he
promised to do what he can.
Ok. We're gonna need
all the help we can get.
Oh... please don't.
Please, I don't want it.
I don't want it.
Spencer, please go to the other room.
Don't treat him like a child.
I'm not gonna have this
conversation in front of him.
I'm not crazy.
If you refuse to take care
of yourself, I can't help you.
You're weak.
I'm not weak.
I know, honey.
You know, we should check
with Monty over at IRT
to see how many times Reid
has crossed the border.
Our smarts are on the same channel.
I just IM'ed him.
Where are you with the searches?
The scratch of it all,
I am thus far coming up with nothing.
For all we know, Peter Lewis
could be in Mexico
orchestrating this whole thing.
We're talking about a dude
who hacked into DMV records,
and cross that with a cyber wall
run by the Mexican drug cartel,
which is and even scarier
wall of cyber than I'm used to.
What about Reid?
Oh, right. Well, luckily,
he leaves more digital
breadcrumbs than Mr. Lewis,
i.e., I have info on
Reid's flight to Houston.
Looks like he checked in
and out of a hotel there.
But if he rented wheels to get to
Mexico, there's no record of it.
Well, maybe he has a contact down there
and he could have borrowed their car.
He could have taken a bus.
There's all kinds of
ways to cross the border.
I'll keep looking.
Ok, so I dug around his desk,
I found a whole lot of
articles in medical journals,
no big surprise.
This is all about experimental medicine.
Ok. Experimental medicine makes sense.
I got an email from a
librarian friend of mine
from the FBI library.
It looks like our boy wonder
has been processing a lot with
that beautiful brain of his,
all having to do with
alternative medicinal procedures
for fighting Alzheimer's.
Well, he told me he was
supplementing her meds
with omega-3s and making sure
she was eating a ton of leafy greens.
But he said her prescriptions
plus vitamins weren't enough.
Maybe he took it to a new level.
Because it takes years to
pass the FDA guidelines,
a lot of holistic medicine is
practiced outside the United States.
Ok, they have landed and
they are on the way to Spence.
All right, well, let's
start digging through these,
see if we can find
anything that can help.
Thanks for calling us.
A U.S. fed in our custody isn't
something we see every day.
We appreciate you
letting us talk to him.
Have you gotten his tox
screen panels back yet?
No.
You will need to expedite that.
We have cause to believe
that Agent Reid was drugged.
He was definitely high
and driving like a maniac
with $20,000 worth of
heroin in his possession.
Both of which put my officers at risk.
You're in our jurisdiction.
The rules are different here.
We understand.
Hey, Reid.
It's good to see you, brother.
It's me, Luke.
Luke.
Thank you for coming.
Of course.
We're gonna get you out of here, kid.
We need to work out some
details with the locals, ok?
Who was your contact down here?
Rosa.
Rosa Medina. I think she's a doctor.
All right.
Where did you meet her?
I don't remember.
If you saw her, would you remember her?
Yeah. I think so.
You're missing time, aren't you?
It's peeking out.
It's coming in flashes.
And you've been drugged.
Yeah, but I didn't take it myself.
Well, of course you didn't, Spencer.
We're thinking it might be Scratch.
Scratch.
Excuse me.
Hey, JJ.
Is he ok?
Yeah. I mean, he's in one piece.
I'm not sure he recognizes us.
That could be the drugs.
Would a cognitive help?
I really think we're a little far off
for that right now. Um,
he definitely didn't
recognize Scratch's name.
But he wrote the name
of his local contact,
Rosa Medina, on his arm.
I just sent the pic to Garcia.
He says that she's a doctor.
So his short-term is coming back,
but it's limited.
It sounds like his
long-term is still a mess.
Ok, this definitely
reads chicken scratch,
but it's... oh, there are a
lot of Rosa Medinas in Mexico.
Well, let's start with women
in Houston and Brownsville,
and then cross them
with Mexican citizens.
Got it.
He told Emily
he was gonna talk to his mom's doctor.
If that was true, we all assumed
it was the doctor from the clinic,
but maybe it was this Rosa Medina.
And she could be being
cautious, which is why
we haven't been able to find
any communication between them.
And why should she be cautious?
Well, because in 2015,
60 holistic doctors
across the United States
died mysteriously.
Some were accidents,
others violent attacks,
others were deemed suicide.
Conspiracy theorists
believe these doctors
were targeted fatally by
pharmaceutical companies
for their belief in holistic practice.
Well, then Rosa Medina
might not be her real name.
You think she might have an alias?
Look, I've seen it plenty of times.
If she's afraid of consequences,
maybe she used an anagram.
How many holistic
doctors with connections
between Texas and Mexico?
Uh, Sophia Flores.
Ana Sorel.
Nadie Ramos.
Juliet Hernandez.
What's the story with Nadie Ramos?
Uh... uh, let's see.
She specializes in experimental drugs
that reverse brain degeneration.
Have you got a photo?
Yep. Sending it to you guys right now.
Hey, the team sent this.
Is this the doctor you met?
Yeah.
Her alias is Rosa Medina.
Her real name is Nadie Ramos.
Garcia tracked her to a motel
just outside of town.
Does that sound familiar?
No.
We'll need to take Castenada
and his officers with us.
You want company here?
No, I'm... I'm ok.
Manager says he hasn't seen her all day.
If she's left town, this
won't be good for Reid.
No puede pasar.
Damn, she's dead.
This isn't good.
Tres, cuatro, cinco, seis, siete...
This doesn't look good for your friend.
Come on. We both know
these things could have
been planted in here
just as the drugs could have
been planted in the trunk.
Framed for drugs. Framed for murder.
You're not even considering the obvious?
You wouldn't either if
you knew Spencer Reid.
We've both got a job to do.
I'll get all this processed.
And we'll continue to fight
to prove he's innocent.
Reid's stuff was everywhere.
If they run DNA, he'll
be all over this room.
Maybe even on the victim.
The coroner counted over 25 stab wounds.
There's still no sign of the knife?
No.
We've got a disorganized crime scene
with the offender aware enough
to take the murder weapon with them.
It doesn't add up.
Unless it was a drug-induced kill.
The unsub could have freaked out
and taken off with the knife.
Reid told Castenada
he was chasing someone.
It could have been the killer.
Yeah. Well, if they
took the knife with them,
they could have dumped it in the desert.
And Reid's got a nasty cut on his hand.
It could be from the same blade.
He didn't do this.
I know.
But Scratch has done one hell of a job
making it look like he did.
How are you holding up?
Well, it's been quite a year, but...
This...
You two are close.
He's my best friend.
Yeah, he's stronger than anyone knows,
but he is not equipped to be locked up.
Well, I never thought I'd say this,
but maybe the drugs are
helping with any anxiety.
Well, I thought the same.
I mean, I want him to come down,
but then when he's sober,
time's gonna stand still and
that will drive him crazy.
So Monty tracked Reid's passport.
Turns out he used his personal
and not his work issued one,
which makes sense,
because he wasn't working,
right? Say right.
Mm, working or not, he
should have been briefed
before leaving the
country and he wasn't.
So on a scale of one to terrible?
It's terrible.
The Bureau's gonna hold it against him.
He violated security protocol.
I mean, as a federal agent,
he's a high-value target.
You know this. The brass doesn't like it
when you keep them in the dark.
Why did he keep us out of this?
I didn't know he
crossed the border once,
let alone 3 times.
3 times in the last 3 months?
What was he doing down there?
Lying. He was lying. Every
time he crossed the border,
he lied to us, and he went all rogue,
and he got himself in
all this damn trouble.
We'll, he was making decisions
with his heart and not his head.
Which I'm intimately familiar with,
but none of this would have happened
if he would have let us help.
Well, Penelope, that's what
we're gonna do now. Ok?
Well, I'm still mad at him.
We know you didn't do this.
How did it happen?
She was stabbed, multiple times.
It looked personal.
We got the results of your blood work.
There's cocaine and
heroin in your system.
What else?
He was in possession
of cocaine and heroin
when he was arrested.
I found what I need.
No, I need a full tox screen panel.
We're looking for scopolamine.
That'll take longer.
I don't care. I need it.
You were given a speedball.
The opiates block the dopamine.
That's why thing go from clear to hazy.
The combination of the drugs
causes a dissociative state
and explains the memory loss.
Are you coming down now?
I think so.
Do you think you could
do a cognitive interview?
I'll try.
Do you have a quiet room we can use?
Yes. There were 5 of these
in your bag at the motel.
You recognize them?
I put it in some orange juice
so it won't taste so bad.
What is it?
I'm gonna run it through the lab.
Whatever's in those vials,
I was giving it to my mom.
That's the only thing I'm sure of.
So Emily said they're
gonna try a cognitive,
but she isn't very hopeful.
Did they run a full tox screen?
No. No, they only looked
for cocaine and heroin
because those were the
drugs in his possession.
And?
And he tested positive for both.
What?
Well, there's gotta be
some other sedative present
for him to be missing so much time.
Look, they're only gonna
investigate what helps their case,
and right now, they have
a dead Mexican citizen
and a drugged up American suspect.
That's true. It's not up
to the Mexican authorities
to prove what we believe,
which is Reid is being framed.
They're only looking at who
and what's in front of them.
Ok, but we can't let
him get stuck there.
Then we better hope they
come up with something useful
from this cognitive.
It's a good sign things are coming back.
Ok, so you remember landing in Houston,
but you haven't said how
you got across the border.
I took a bus to Brownsville.
And walked across.
Is that where you met Rosa?
The first time.
This trip we met in a motel.
Because she doesn't have an office here.
If you'd met Rosa before,
why did you write her name on your arm?
I don't know. I don't know.
Well, it's a good thing you did.
Otherwise we may not have found her.
Maybe that would have been a good thing.
Eventually her body would
have been discovered.
When did you first meet her?
Houston.
I met her at Houston and at the clinic.
She wrote an article on Alzheimer's.
And that's why I came here.
Ok. That's the most
cognizant you've been,
so let's focus on that.
It's time to close your eyes.
Ok, tell me about her.
She had the vials.
She said that my mom
just needed 3 drops a day.
And I thanked her.
Then something... Something went wrong.
She was upset, and
we were at the window.
What was it? Was someone else there?
Yeah.
Ok, can you see them?
No. No.
The door opened.
They must have knocked me out,
'cause I don't... I know
that I was on the floor.
I can't... can't remember.
Can't remember anything.
I can't remember anything.
She...
Rosa's on the floor, too, though.
And... someone else is definitely there.
- There's a knife.
- Aah!
There's a knife and
there's a lot of blood.
Who has the knife?
Who is stabbing Rosa?
I don't know.
It's in my hand.
You're trying to stop the killer.
Mm-hmm.
I think so.
Reid.
Ok. Let's... let's take a break, ok?
We need to get you cleaned up.
How's he doing?
He's made some breakthroughs,
but I'm not sure how helpful they'll be.
What is it?
They just charged Reid with
the murder of Nadie Ramos.
We can't get him out of here, can we?
I don't know how.
He didn't kill her.
If all I had to go on was the evidence,
I would swear he did.
But knowing Reid,
hearing the cognitive...
Yes, he said there was another
person in that motel room, but...
Who has the knife?
Who is stabbing Rosa?
I don't know.
It's in my hand.
You're trying to stop the killer.
Right now this is just
more evidence against him.
Ok, I am obsessively refreshing
the Mexican prison logs,
and so far Reid is staying put.
But they could transfer
him to Santa Adaladia
or El Diablo, both of which
make Matamoros look like a day spa.
Like a who's who of bad guys.
Crazy rough, really overcrowded.
There's assaults and
murders on inmates monthly.
He's an American, accused of
murdering a Mexican citizen.
The government is well within
their rights to keep him there.
Well, they could do worse.
They could lock him up
and throw away the key.
Look, the only thing we
know Reid is guilty of
is getting the vials for his mother.
Now maybe the drugs in
those vials weren't illegal.
I hate to say it, but
they probably were.
I mean, he couldn't get
whatever it is stateside.
Or let's say it wasn't
an illegal substance,
but whoever planted the
heroin in the trunk...
Put something crazy
in the vials as well.
Right.
Reid is going to
El Diablo maximum security
by the end of the day
They just put in the transfer.
This is Prentiss.
I'll be right there.
Mom, don't do that!
Don't do that! Stop it!
Leave me alone! Stop!
Stop! Give it back to me!
Oh! Stay away from me!
Ohh! Aah!
For God's sake, leave me alone!
Mom! Stop!
Why did you do that?
I hate that stuff and I hate you!
Do you have any idea what I went
through to get that medicine?
It can't be replaced.
To you realize that?
Good! I want to go back home.
- This is home.
- No, it isn't!
I want to go back to where I was before.
Uhh!
Reid?
A little good news.
Backup is here.
Hey, Spencer.
Hey.
Thank you for coming.
Yeah, of course.
Jack and me are finishing up a case
in Costa Rica,
so we hopped on a commercial
plane to get here.
We're trying to stop your
transfer to El Diablo.
Do you think it's possible?
Yes. Lab reports on the vials came back.
Some of what was in there
hasn't been approved by the FDA,
but there aren't any illegal substances.
That's great news.
Is there anything else you
remember about your time here?
I remember what happened
to the vials at home.
My mom threw most of them out.
So that's why you
were here, to get more.
It must be.
Well, you're off the hook for that.
There was no contraband involved.
Yeah, but we were still
looking at the planted drug
and murder charges, which could
keep you here for a long time.
So what can we do to delay the transfer?
You said that you met Nadie,
who calls herself Rosa, in Houston.
Why didn't she just give
you the vials in the U.S.?
I don't know. I don't know.
But she helped us and I trusted her.
I was right to. I still believe that.
Well, she convinced you to
cross the border multiple times.
She had you risk your life.
Because she must have had
something to lose, too.
Like family.
We need to know more about her.
Well, what was in those vials?
Yeah.
There are some nootropic
compounds like Ampalex,
uh, but also some
more natural stuff...
Coral calcium, Jimson weed,
coconut oil, a variety
of vitamins... B12, D3.
Where are we right now?
Matamoros, Northern Mexico.
Jimson weed, otherwise
known as the Devil's snare,
originated in Mexico, but
its natural growing region
is further north or south of the border.
Now, that sounds like you.
So it isn't from here.
Then where'd she get it?
Garcia, we've got some questions.
Hey, Penelope.
Oh, my God.
It's the dulcet tones of Matt Simmons.
Are you there to save the day?
I'm trying. Clara's here, too.
Knowing we have you guys as backup
is providing me some much needed hope,
and I work better this way.
Hey, lady, we're trying
to catch up on a few things.
Shoot it at me.
Where is Nadie Ramos from?
Mm, she lives with her family
just north of Matamoros.
That must be where she
got the Jimson weed.
What's weird is she crosses
the border like a lot.
Why?
Well, she works at
that clinic in Houston.
She also helps at a
local healthcare center.
I can't find a visa on
her, which is double weird.
And in finishing the weird trifecta,
there's a social security
number on her W-2 form.
Social security?
She's an American citizen?
Yeah. She has dual citizenship.
She was born in Houston,
and her family had to
move back to Mexico.
She lives with them and
she works in the U.S.
Well, this changes everything and
we need to talk to the consulate.
It's time for his transfer.
We've had a break in the case.
The victim was also American,
and that calls for extradition.
I've got orders. Sorry.
With the victim having dual citizenship,
we now have concurrent jurisdiction.
It was my understanding
that the official order
to extradite SSA Spencer Reid
would be evaluated.
I understand. Thank you.
They're taking it to their brass.
Go get him.
Let's go.
Hey, stop!
We just got word that he's
under our jurisdiction.
We'll be taking him back to the U.S. Ok?
Ok, thanks.
My old unit chief at BAP has a call in
to the best legal counsel
the Bureau has to offer.
We need a dream team.
That's what we'll get.
Cruz said we need Reid's work history,
performance reviews,
commendations, and reprimands
if there are any, and we need
them in the next 3 minutes.
Garcia and I compiled
the list just in case.
Done. It's sent.
All right. Now we wait.
We're working on all channels here.
Matt Cruz is on with
the consulate right now.
We could get an immediate extradition,
but it's just the beginning.
I really screwed up and I'm so sorry.
It was for the right reason.
I don't know what happened,
but I know I didn't kill anyone.
We do, too.
Hey. They approved the extradition.
Effective immediately.
You'll forgive me for
feeling like justice
isn't exactly being
served with this move.
I understand.
But I can assure you this
has gone to the highest ranks
and there will be a full investigation.
Thank you for working with us.
For our reports, I would like to have
the recording of that
cognitive interview.
I didn't record it.
But that was our agreement.
I determined he was
still under the influence.
Anything he said wouldn't
have clarified matters.
You're committed agents.
And I've worked with the IRT before.
I trust you know what you're doing.
We do. I promise.
Thanks for the ride home.
Don't mention it.
Commercial airlines kick
my ass nowadays. You?
Once you've had the best,
it's hard to go back.
I was just thanking
Clara for helping us.
Yeah, and I told her,
when one of us is in
trouble, we all are.
You guys have any other
problems with this,
we happen to know some people.
Love that.
I can't thank you enough.
Hey, it's all good, man.
I'm just glad you sound
like yourself again.
Me, too.
Ok, so here's the deal that Cruz made.
We can stop by the BAU when we land,
but then we'll drive
you into the district
and take you to the federal jail.
Since you are under
investigation for murder,
these cuffs are going to have to
stay on until you are arraigned,
but you're not a flight risk up here.
Thank you.
Circulation's a wonderful thing.
And the moment there's a
chance for outside witnesses,
these go back on.
Have you talked to anyone
about the legal team?
Yeah. Stephen Walker made some calls
to the BAP to get the best we can.
The BAP's a great group.
You'll be in good hands.
Mark my words, kid.
This whole thing's been a nightmare,
but we're gonna get you out of this.
Prints and samples from the crime
scene came back to our home lab.
They've found proof that
backs up your cognitive.
There was a third person in that room.
You're not out of the woods,
but I swear we won't lose you.
Hi.
Oh.
I'm so sorry.
It's only because there
are other people around.
It's ok.
We know you didn't do anything wrong.
But I should have told
you guys I was going there.
I never... never imagined
in a million years
it would have turned out like this.
No one thought that
this could have happened.
Look, you're not in this alone anymore.
Ok? No secrets.
Deal.
My turn.
Come here, you.
Oh, my God.
Your color's better.
All I had to look at was that mug shot,
and it had me really worried.
Yeah, we all were.
Glad you're back.
Me, too.
How's my mom doing?
She's fine. You don't need
to worry about her, I promise.
I can't help it.
Trust me. Garcia had meals delivered
to your mom almost every night.
And that nurse you
got is amazing... Cassie.
Cassie, she's great.
I brought the boys by.
Your mom really loved them.
I bet she did.
Uh, I just got a text.
Reid isn't eligible for the
Bureau's legal assistance.
What?
He was never briefed.
And he wasn't in Mexico
on government business.
They won't represent him.
Oh, God.
We're on our own.
“There are so many
fragile things after all.
“People break so easily,
and so do dreams and hearts.”
Neil Gaiman.
Synced and corrected by deglinglau
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org